Added new kb article bind-sortdescriptors-collectionview-net-maui (#1072)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/bind-sortdescriptors-collectionview-net-maui.md

---
title: Binding SortDescriptors in CollectionView for .NET MAUI
description: Learn how to use data binding with CollectionView SortDescriptors in .NET MAUI applications.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Bind SortDescriptors in .NET MAUI CollectionView
slug: bind-sortdescriptors-collectionview-net-maui
tags: collectionview, sortdescriptors, databinding, .net maui, observablecollection
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1677846
---

## Environment

| Version | Product | Author | 
| --- | --- | ---- | 
| 9.0.0 | Telerik UI for .NET MAUI CollectionView | [Dobrinka Yordanova](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/author/dobrinka-yordanova) | 

## Description

> In my application, I want to use data binding to bind to an ObservableCollection of sort descriptors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In my application, I want to use data binding to bind to an `ObservableCollection` of sort descriptors.
```

This knowledge base article also answers the following questions:

> - How to dynamically sort items in a CollectionView using SortDescriptors in .NET MAUI?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to dynamically sort items in a CollectionView using `SortDescriptors` in .NET MAUI?
```

> - How to bind SortDescriptors to a ViewModel property in .NET MAUI?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to bind `SortDescriptors` to a view model property in .NET MAUI?
```

- How to update CollectionView sorting based on user input in .NET MAUI?

## Solution

> To bind the `SortDescriptors` collection in a `CollectionView` to a property in the ViewModel, follow these steps:

Reviewer: When referring to the view model as a general concept, write it as two words. When referring to a specific `ViewModel` in a project, then use the PascalCase variant in monospace.
```suggestion
To bind the `SortDescriptors` collection in a CollectionView to a property in the view model, follow these steps:
```

		}
	}

	private void EnsureDescriptor(string propertyName, bool include)
	{
		ObservableCollection<SortDescriptorBase> descriptors = this.SortDescriptors;

		if (descriptors == null)
		{
			return;
		}

		SortDescriptorBase descriptor = this.TryGetDescriptor(propertyName);

		if (include)
		{
			if (descriptor == null)
			{
				descriptors.Add(new PropertySortDescriptor { PropertyName = propertyName });
			}
		}
		else
		{
			if (descriptor != null)
			{
				descriptors.Remove(descriptor);
			}
		}
	}

	private void UpdateFlags()
	{
		this.IsSortByName = this.TryGetDescriptor(nameof(Person.Name)) != null;
		this.IsSortByAge = this.TryGetDescriptor(nameof(Person.Age)) != null;
	}

	private SortDescriptorBase TryGetDescriptor(string propertyName)
	{
		SortDescriptorBase descriptor = this.sortDescriptors?.FirstOrDefault(d => (d as PropertySortDescriptor)?.PropertyName == propertyName);
		return descriptor;
	}
}
public class Person
{
	public string Name { get; set; }
	public int Age { get; set; }
}

```

3. Ensure that property change notifications are properly propagated, and the `SortDescriptors` collection is updated accordingly when switches are toggled.

> This approach allows for dynamic sorting of items in the `CollectionView` based on user input, by binding `SortDescriptors` to a collection managed in the ViewModel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach allows for dynamic sorting of items in the CollectionView based on user input, by binding `SortDescriptors` to a collection managed in the view model.
```
